Add manual calculation of cc (#19)
slarse/lektor: report/manual_cc_count/rouwayd/answers.md

# Complexity Measurement

## Results

> The CC is counted as CC = Number of decisions + 1.

Reviewer: In my calculations I used the formula presented during the lecture, which is similar, except it takes the number of exits (returns + raises) into account:

`CC = pi + s - 2`, where `pi = number of decisions` and `s = number of exits`

I think we should use that formula because it's the one from the lecture, but if you think this formula is better (I think it's more similar to what `lizard` uses) we can go with it instead.

[src](https://www.aivosto.com/project/help/pm-complexity.html)
#### **sourcesearch.find\_files**

> CC = 5 (3 if, 1 try-finally)

Reviewer: This seems to match my results, but in my interpretation of the method you used, the try-finally clause should not count as a decision (it only lists `catch`). Or am I misinterpreting it (which is likely, getting pretty sleepy by now :sleepy:).

#### **cli.plugins\_list\_cmd**
CC = 9 (4 if, 4 for)

#### **utils.merge**

> CC = 7 (4 if, 2 for)

Reviewer: I got 7 here with the formula I used, which means our results were different for this one. The difference in this case is caused by the `and` operator, which according to the slides from the lecture counts as a decision.

I think it can be considered a decision because of the short circuit behavior (for `x and y`, if `x` is false then `y` is not evaluated).

Reviewer: I hadn't read the later part, where you explain that you did not count the boolean operators, so I'm marking this conversation as resolved.

#### **cli.content\_file\_info_cmd**
CC = 11 (7 if, 3 for)

#### **types/flow.discover\_relevant\_flowblock\_models**

> CC = 9 (1 if, 2 for)

Reviewer: Here I found 4 if's, 2 for's, 1 while and one `or` condition, meaning a total of 8 decisions. But I got CC = 7 here because I took the three exits of this method into account (`CC = 8 - 3 + 2 = 7`).

No matter what we decide to use, we'll need to change what's inside the parentheses, because you cannot have gotten a CC of 9 from 1 if and 2 for's.

## Discussion
### Comparison

> My results are not exactly the same as Lizard's output. There are some different things that are taken into account in Lizard's way of counting the CC compared to my way, such as boolean operators such as _AND_ or _OR_. Boolean operators add internal complexity to the decisions but, according to [src](https://www.aivosto.com/project/help/pm-complexity.html), should not count in CC, which I have not.

Reviewer: We should probably rewrite or add to this part, based on what we decide on. But I think the current version looks good for the method you used.

### High CC ==> high NLOC?

> High CC doesn't necessarily imply high ncloc. Of course there will be more decision making in high cc functions but there could be few non-decision making statements in the code, giving a low ncloc. The chosen functions did not have many lines of code.

Reviewer: Sounds good overall, but the question asks if the functions are very long, so not explicitly about high ncloc.

### Function purpose

> The documentation is very poor. Therefore, One must look at the function name or some statements in the function to learn the function purpose.

Reviewer: I think we are supposed to explicitly list what we interpret each of the functions do here, to fullfill requirement 4: `The purpose of each of the high-complexity methods is documented in detail w.r.t. the different outcomes resulting in branches in the code.`
We also need to discuss whether their purpose are related to them having a high CC.

### Exception handling taken into account?

> A try-catch block should be taken into account when counting the CC. The code inside the catch block can be seen as a seperate branch as it will only be run if an exception is raised inside the try. If one is strict, then each statement inside the try is be counted as +1 in CC since the exception could be raised anytime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A try-catch block should be taken into account when counting the CC. The code inside the catch block can be seen as a separate branch as it will only be run if an exception is raised inside the try. With a strict interpretation, each statement inside the try could count as one decision since the exception could be raised anytime.
```

Reviewer: I agree with the general idea here, just being a little picky :smile:
